---
title: "Simple Storage Service (S3)"
metaTitle: "Simple Storage Service"
metaDescription: "Simple Storage Service"
---
Storage services provide a place for companies to store data.

**S3** is an object storage service for the cloud that is **highly available**.

* **Objects** (files) are stored in **buckets** (directories).
* Offers **unlimited** storage.
* Objects can be **public** or **private**.
* You can upload objects via the **console, cli, or programatically**.



## S3 Features

### Security

You can set security at the **bucket** level or **individual** object level using access control lists (ACLs), buckets policies, or access point access.

### Versioning

You can create multiple versions of your file to protect against accidental deletion and to keep old versions if you need to reuse them.

### S3 Access Logs

Allow you to track the access to your buckets and objects.

### Regional Service

S3 is regional, but bucket names are **globally unique**.



## Data Accessibility

**Durability**: Concerned with the presence of your data. **S3 insures 11 9's of durability**

**Availability**: Concerned with accessing your data when you need it. **S3 insures 4 9's**

## S3 Use cases

1. **Static Websites** | Use CloudFront for global distribution.
2. **Data Archival** | Using glacier.
3. **Analytics systems** | Use with Redshift or Athena.
4. **Mobile Applications** | Mobile applications can upload files to S3

## Storage classes

### Standard

##### Durability: 11 9s | Availability 4 9s

* **General purpose** storage.
* Data is stored **across AZs**.
* **Low latency** and **High throughput**.
* **Recommended for:** Frequently accessed data.




### S3 Intelligent-Tiering

##### Durability: 11 9s | Availability 4 9s

* Automatically moves your data to **the most cost effective** class.
* Automatic cost savings.
* Data stored across multiple AZs.
* **Recommended for:** Data with unknown or changing access patterns.



### S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (IA)

##### Durability: 11 9s | Availability 4 9s

* Data accessed less frequently but requires rapid access.
* Data is stored **across AZs**.
* Cheaper than S3 standard.
* **Recommended for:** 
  * Long lived data.
  * Infrequently accessed data.
  * Millisecond access when needed.



### S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (IA)

##### Durability: 11 9s | Availability 99.5%

* Data accessed less frequently but requires rapid access.
* Data is stored **in one AZs**.
* Costs 20% less than S3 standard-IA.
* **Recommended for:** 
  * Easily recreatable data.
  * Infrequently accessed data.
  * Millisecond access when needed.
  * Availability and durability are not a priority.


### S3 Glacier Deep Archive
##### Durability: 11 9s

* Data is stored **in one AZs**.
* 2 retrieval options: 12 hours | 48 hours.
* **Recommended for:** 
  * Long-term data archival accessed once or twice a year.
  * Retaining data for regulatory compliance requirements.

### S3 Outposts

* On premise object storage.
* A single storage class.
* **Recommended for:** 
  * Data that needs to be kept local.
  * Demanding application performance needs.





